# Predictive analysis on United-States of America Gun violence Dataset

Gun Violence is a very serious issue faced by many countries around the world. It is very common to hear every day in the News media that “There has been a Shooting Incident” in the USA, even though the United States has 28th the highest rate of deaths related to gun violence in the world in 2017. The U.S. has seen a rise in gun-related violence, and it has the highest rate of murder by firearm among the developed nation. According to a study by CDC 58 percentage of American Adults experience gun-related violence and three million American children’s face gun violence every year.

In this report, we will do a detailed analysis on the United states Gun violence data collected from 2013 to 2018 for better understanding how dangerous is the gun culture in America. A detailed inference on a few of the basic questions such as which age group, gender, state, the city is most affected by gun violence is answered. The focus of this analysis is to include an extra parameter such as population, per-capita and un-employment rate in each U.S. states to predict which state is most dangerous and safest from this gun violence. This inclusion of these socioeconomic data will give a clear picture of the seriousness of the Gun violence and answers importance of the included data. Apart from this prediction we also predict which month of the year, which day of the week is dangerous or safer. Prediction is done by making use of machine learning methods such as K means clustering and Hierarchical clustering. Risk score is generated by giving proper weightage to attribute to predict which month of the year, day of the week and which U.S. State is most safe and dangerous from Gun related violence.

Steps involved in accessing the code

1. git clone <this-repo> 

2. Open the .ipynd file in any code editor to know more about code used for our predictive analysis.
